Startup modal credits - https://www.tutorialrepublic.com/faq/how-to-launch-bootstrap-modal-on-page-load.php

interesting bug - to apply two for loops with the recipes dataset on the myrecipes page I had to pass the same data into the render_template 
twice as Jinja only allows an argument to be used once;
return render_template("myrecipes.html", recipes=mongo.db.recipes.find(), username=username, recipes2=mongo.db.recipes.find())
This is also evident in the /browse_recipes route.

# Data Driven Recipe Site
This is an interactive website with both front-end & back-end functionality.  It constitutes the third of my four projects which form the assessment 
basis of my Full-Stack Web Development course with The Code Institute.
The purpose of this project is to allow users to interact with a back-end database of recipes using an appealing & intuative front-end.  The site 
allows users to upload & save their own recipes while also searching & browsing recipes submitted by others & bookmarking them for later recall.
The site also serves the purpose of allowing the administator to attract revenue, either through promotion of their own recipes, through the inclusion
of product placement, or through a pay for promotion service where individuals pay a fee to have their recipes promoted.

## Demo
TO BE COMPLETED

## UX
The design goal of this project was to make the front-end as appealing & intuatively interactive as possible while also providing a warm colourful 
display which serves to stimulate the users senses.  An orange theme was choosen along with a visually rich backround image of fresh ingredients along
with a linen background image to add a rustic feel.

For the site administator I also wanted to be able to give them the ability to integrate promoted recipes (which serve as the revenue stream for the site)
without taking away from the user-generated feel & rendering the site overly-commercial.  To do so I incorporated a promoted recipe carousel in the 
browse section & also included a random promoted recipe underneath any search results.

## Technologies Used
1. HTML
2. CSS
3. Bootstrap
4. Materialize
5. Javascript
6. jQuery
7. Python
8. Flask
9. Jinja2
9. MongoDB

## Features
**Feature 1 - Recipe Page**
The My Recipes page (which can be accessed from the button in the nav of the same name or by clicking the site logo in the center of the nav) utilises
the jinja templating language to loop through & render each recipe written by the user.  It does so by passing in all recipes as an argument when
rendering the url & then, through use of a jinja if statement rendering only those recipes who's author matches that of the username entered at the 
start of the session.
The page then uses the same method to render all recipes which the user has bookmarker by checking if the bookmarkers field contains the substring
matching the username.

**Feature 2 - Browse Functionality**
The Browse functionality can be accessed via the Browse tab.  It displays a number of carousels consisting of thumbnail images & recipe names. Upon
click the individual recipe is rendered on a separate tab.  The purpose of this section is to allow the user to browse many recipes visually & by
category in order to quickly process & narrow many recipes (as opposed to a list detailing all recipes or recipes details).
At the top of the Browse page is the promoted carousel which is to be utilised by the site administator as outlined above in the UX section.

**Feature 3 - Upload Recipe Functionality**
As this site is to be comprised primarily of user generated content it was imperative that the user be given the ability to upload their own recipes.
To achieve this a form has been created on the Upload Recipe page.  The form was designed to incorporate not only textboxes but also checkboxes &
a slider to give some variety to the user.  The author name field is populated automatically.

**Feature 4 - Search Functionality**
The search feature allows the user to search based on a number of parameters (recipe name, ingredients, & author).  This feature will become more
relevant with a greater number of user generated content.  The functionality was designed to be as minimalistic as possible.

**Feature - Bookmark add/remove buttons**
The add/remove bookmark feature was implimented to give users the ability to save recipes which have been generated by other users.

**Feature - Delete buttons**
The delete feature allows users to delete recipes they themselves authored.

### Features Left to Implement
**Additional search capabilities**
I future I would like to impliment the ability to search by additional parameters such as difficulty & category.  I would also like to include
the ability to search by multiple criteria & a search function on the My Recipes page to allow the user to search through their own recipes (bookmarked
& authored).
Additionally I would like to remove the case sensitivity of the search by manipulating the search imput.

**Update authored recipes**
I would like to grant the user the ability to update their own authored recipes.

**Photo upload**
I would like to give the user the ability to upload a photo file locally as opposed to a photo-url.

**User feedback**
I would like to impliment either a comment section or ratings system to allow other users to provide feedback on recipes.  Once this is implimented
I would then include it as a search parameter.

## Testing
### Automated Testing Impliment Jasmine Testing

### Manual Testing
All links have been manually tested to ensure that they are pointing to the correct destination.

All buttons (add/remove bookmark, delete authored recipe, upload, & search) have all been tested manually.  All have been testing by cross-referencing
the back end database & manually confirming that;
- All search results that should be present are present
- The username has been added to or removed from the bookmarkers field without removing the other entries in that field.
- That the recipe selected for deletion has been removed from the database.
- That the recipe uploaded has been added to the database with all selected fields & information included.

This site was tested across multiple browsers (Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer, FireFox) and on multiple mobile devices to ensure compatibility 
and responsiveness.  This was done using Chrome's devloper tools & also an online resource (https://responsivedesignchecker.com/).
The collapsable navbar was also test at this stage.

All pages were tested to ensure that they were rendering correctly.  The front-end was cross-referenced with the back-end to ensure that all
correct data was being passed through to the front-end & rendered correctly, for example the My Recipes page was tested to ensure that all
recipes that should be present (both authored & bookmarked) are present.  
It was during this phase that I noticed a bug whereby the first carousel was being rendered & while the other's were not.  This bug was also present
on the My Recipes page whereby the 'Bookmarked' section would not render correctly (in both cases empty containers would render but they would
not be populated with data).
The cause of this bug was that I could not apply multiple separate Jinja for loops to the same dataset (which was passed through the Python route).
In order to apply multiple Jinja for loops I had to pass the same data into the render_template twice as Jinja only allows an argument to be used once;
return render_template("myrecipes.html", recipes=mongo.db.recipes.find(), username=username, recipes2=mongo.db.recipes.find())
This is also evident in the /browse_recipes route.

Finally ran my Javascript code through JS Hint (https://jshint.com/) to flag any potential bugs. None were returned.

## Deployment
This site is hosted & deployed using Herouku & is located at (INPUT URL). 
The site will update automatically with new commits as the master origin has been updated to Heroku.
In order for this site to be deployed correctly the landing page must be named index.html.  All html pages which are to be rendered also must be kept
in a folder named 'templates' which is to be located in a folder labeled 'static'.  These requirements arise from the use of the Jinja templating
language.

In order to run this site locally you can clone this repository directly into your personal editor using the following command;
git clone (ENTER GITHUB URL)
To cut ties with this repository use the following command;
git remote rm origin


